now at least 60 people have been
detained in Russia's dagistan region and
that's after hundreds stormed the main
airport in machala on Sunday to protest
against the arrival of a flight from
Israel now they breached security with
some reaching the runway Witnesses say
they stopped passengers and checked
their passports looking for Israeli
citizens the government of the largely
Muslim region has voiced support for
Gaza let's get more of this from Daniel
Hawkins who joins us live now from
Moscow uh Daniel what more are the
authorities saying about this incident
at the
airport well we are expecting Vladimir
Putin the Russian president to hold a
meeting in about two hours time on what
took place in MCA that could see some
sort of statement in the meantime other
Russian officials have made their
position very clear the head of the
dagistan region Sergey
mikov has said that this violence was
unjustified uh that Swift uh punishment
will follow for those involved but also
said that he believes this incident was
orchestrated provoked and encouraged by
what he describes as the enemies of
Russia claiming that it was quote
Ukrainian nationalists that had
encouraged uh this vience at the airport
to take place that was a position echoed
by Maria zakara the spokeswoman of the
Russian foreign Ministry who claimed
that it was quote uh the KF regime that
had or orchestrated this violence in
order to discredit Russia's POS position
on the international Arena now Russian
officials claim that it was in
particular one telegram channel the utra
dagana Dagan morning Channel which has
tens of thousands of followers uh which
had incited people to take to the
streets and go uh on this Rampage in the
airport they claim this is a channel
linked to Ilia panov who's a former
Russian State Deputy who fled the
country to Ukraine back in 2014 and has
since encouraged the violent opposition
uh to the the Kremlin and its policies
in Ukraine in particular he has since
denied that he's had anything to do with
this channel since last year that's not
something Russian authorities have
bought making their position very clear
that this incident was provoked uh from
abroad uh by this Ukrainian Trace that
they say was behind uh this quite
shocking unrest at Mahala airport even
with whatever happened at the airport
it's still going to focus back to Russia
as far as is is is concerned and
Russia's own foreign policy stance when
it comes to what's been happening in
Gaza well indeed Russia's sought very
much play a balancing act here and not
take a direct side in this conflict
though it's very clear from statements
we've heard from Moscow that it sees the
root cause of the problem and indeed of
this recent escalation as the uh
Injustice suffered by the Palestinian
people and the denial of the statehood
uh they've had over over the decades uh
Moscow has sought to play uh the role of
a mediator uh in this conflict or at
least be seen uh willing to do so
through its un resolutions through its
statements calling for a ceasefire it
also wants to prevent an escalation of
the conflict that could harm its
Regional allies Syria and Iran Russia of
course has ties to both sides the Soviet
Union being among the first countries to
recognize Israel when it was formed H
yet having very close ties to the Arab
world again ating back to the Soviet era
and to pan Arab nationalism uh indeed to
modern day um Middle East as well
through the op cartel so Russia very
much has been part of Middle Eastern
peace efforts before being part of that
uh peace quartet but its role compared
to the US and EU was rather limited so
this escalation of violence Russia has
seen as an opportunity to cement itself
as a mediator in the Arab Israeli
conflict through uh what it sees is it's
more nuanced position trying to
understand the anger felt among the
Muslim world the global Muslim Community
the Russian Muslim Community at the
violence in Gaza without justifying any
sort of violence or unrest both on home
soil and Beyond so very much an
opportunity for Russia to present itself
uh as a state that seeks a more balanced
position in contrast to its Western
counterparts Daniel Hawkins for us there
in Moscow thank you